# Poldercast

Poldercast is our peer to peer (P2P) pub/sub algorithm. It defines how
nodes on the network are supposed to discover each others as well as
how events should be propagated from nodes to nodes in order to reach
the appropriate recipients.

You can find the paper here: [Poldercast](https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01555561/document).

Our implementation is here: [`poldercast`](https://github.com/primetype/poldercast#README.md).

## Gossips

When connecting to the network the node generates a Gossip of itself.
It contains the necessary information to identify the node in the
network and the list of topic of interests.

In our implementation, the identification of the node necessitate two
types of information:

* the ip address (ipv4 or ipv6) with the port number;
* the ed25519 public key of the node

The Gossip also embeds a timestamp as well as a signature generated
with the node's private key. This allows us to know the data is the
one that was originally generated by this private key associated to
this public key (see [key and signature](../keynesis/00_introduction.md#signing)).

## Topics of interest

The topic of interest is a list of nodes topic identifier (`topic`)
with an interest level. This allows for each nodes to prioritize
how much priority they put to some set of information.

The topics is an array of 32 bytes. It can be derived from a `hash`
of something else. A static value or a public key. This allows for
a large size of different topics to exist on the network and should
provide enough space for everyone to exist on the network.

## Poldercast Layers

Poldercast algorithm can be simply described as 3 different layers.

One of these layers is called the `ring` layer and is responsible to define how
events of certain topic are supposed to be distributed based on the
identifier of the node.

There is also the `vicinity` layer that is responsible to find
nodes that have similar interests (based on the topics of interest of
our nodes and the other nodes of the network).

Finally there is the `cyclon` layer that is responsible to randomly
sample nodes on the network.
